docs/api/documentation.rst, before:

.. # Copyright (c) 2017-2021, Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC and
.. # other BLT Project Developers. See the top-level COPYRIGHT file for details
.. # 
.. # SPDX-License-Identifier: (BSD-3-Clause)

Documenation Macros
===================


blt_add_doxygen_target
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: cmake

    blt_add_doxygen_target(doxygen_target_name)

Creates a build target for invoking doxygen to generate docs. Expects to 
find a Doxyfile.in in the directory the macro is called in. 

This macro sets up the doxygen paths so that the doc builds happen 
out of source. For ``make install``, this will place the resulting docs in 
docs/doxygen/<doxygen_target_name>.


blt_add_sphinx_target
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: cmake

    blt_add_sphinx_target(sphinx_target_name)

Creates a build target for invoking sphinx to generate docs. Expects to
find a conf.py or conf.py.in in the directory the macro is called in. 

If conf.py is found, it is directly used as input to sphinx.

If conf.py.in is found, this macro uses CMake's configure_file() command
to generate a conf.py, which is then used as input to sphinx.

This macro sets up the sphinx paths so that the doc builds happen 
out of source. For ``make install``, this will place the resulting docs in 
docs/sphinx/<sphinx_target_name>.

Commit message:

docs: add SPHINX_EXECUTABLE prereq to sphinx tgt

docs/api/documentation.rst, after:

.. # Copyright (c) 2017-2021, Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC and
.. # other BLT Project Developers. See the top-level COPYRIGHT file for details
.. #
.. # SPDX-License-Identifier: (BSD-3-Clause)

Documenation Macros
===================


blt_add_doxygen_target
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: cmake

    blt_add_doxygen_target(doxygen_target_name)

Creates a build target for invoking doxygen to generate docs. Expects to
find a Doxyfile.in in the directory the macro is called in.

This macro sets up the doxygen paths so that the doc builds happen
out of source. For ``make install``, this will place the resulting docs in
docs/doxygen/<doxygen_target_name>.


blt_add_sphinx_target
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: cmake

    blt_add_sphinx_target(sphinx_target_name)

Creates a build target for invoking sphinx to generate docs. Expects
to find a conf.py or conf.py.in in the directory the macro is called
in. Requires that a CMake variable named ``SPHINX_EXECUTABLE``
contains the path to the ``sphinx-build`` executable.

If conf.py is found, it is directly used as input to sphinx.

If conf.py.in is found, this macro uses CMake's configure_file() command
to generate a conf.py, which is then used as input to sphinx.

This macro sets up the sphinx paths so that the doc builds happen
out of source. For ``make install``, this will place the resulting docs in
docs/sphinx/<sphinx_target_name>.
