docs/add_target.rst, before:

.. ###############################################################################
.. # Copyright (c) 2017, Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
.. #
.. # Produced at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
.. #
.. # LLNL-CODE-725085
.. #
.. # All rights reserved.
.. #
.. # This file is part of BLT.
.. #
.. # For additional details, please also read BLT/LICENSE.
.. #
.. # Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.. # modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.. #
.. # * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.. #   this list of conditions and the disclaimer below.
.. #
.. # * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.. #   this list of conditions and the disclaimer (as noted below) in the
.. #   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.. #
.. # * Neither the name of the LLNS/LLNL nor the names of its contributors may
.. #   be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.. #   specific prior written permission.
.. #
.. # THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.. # AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.. # IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.. # ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL LAWRENCE LIVERMORE NATIONAL SECURITY,
.. # LLC, THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.. # DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.. # DAMAGES  (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.. # OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.. # HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.. # STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
.. # IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.. # POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.. #
.. ###############################################################################

.. _AddTarget:

Creating Libraries and Executables
==================================

Now that we have the basics down of how to create a CMake project with BLT, configure
the project, and building and testing the built-in third party libraries provided
by BLT.  We can now move onto more useful tasks, creating libraries and executables
with two of BLT's core macros, ``blt_add_library`` and ``blt_add_executable``.

We will start with a basic executable that calculates pi.  Then extract that code into
a library which we then link into a new executable.


Example 1: Basic executable
---------------------------

This example is as basic as it gets. After setting up a BLT CMake project, like the blank
project in the previous section, BLT macros are already enabled and ready to use.  So creating
an executable is as simple as calling the following macro:

  ..literalinclude:: tutorial/calc_pi/CMakeLists.txt
    :language: cmake
    :lines: 24-25
    :linenos:

This tells CMake that there is an executable named ``example_1`` with one source file.

You can create this project yourself or you can run the already provided ``tutorial/calc_pi`` project.
For ease of use, we have combined many examples into this one CMake project.  After running
the following commands, you will create the executable ``<build dir>/bin/example_1``:

  ..code:: bash

    cd <blt repository/docs/tutorial/calc_pi
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake -DBLT_SOURCE_DIR=`pwd`/../../.. ..
    make


blt_add_executable
------------------

This macro is one of the core macros that enables BLT to simplify many tasks that
every CMake developer does to get a basic project working.  It unifies many CMake
calls into one easy to use macro.  It creates a CMake executable target with the 
given sources, sets the output directory to ``bin`` unless overwritten with the
parameter ``OUTPUT_DIR``, and handles internal and external dependencies in a greatly
simplified manner.  There will be more on that in the following section.


Example 2: One library, one executable
--------------------------------------

This example is a bit more exciting.  This time we are creating a library that calculates
pi then linking that library into our executable.

First we create the library with the following BLT code:

  ..literalinclude:: tutorial/calc_pi/CMakeLists.txt
    :language: cmake
    :lines: 32-34
    :linenos:

Just like before, this creates a CMake library target that will get built to ``<build dir>/lib/libcalc_pi.a``.

Then we will create an executable named ``example_2`` and link in the previously created library target:

  ..literalinclude:: tutorial/calc_pi/CMakeLists.txt
    :language: cmake
    :lines: 37-39
    :linenos:

The ``DEPENDS_ON`` parameter properly links the previously made library into this executable without any
more work or CMake function calls.

Commit message:

add small blurb about blt_add_library, clean up broken indentation

docs/add_target.rst, after:

.. ###############################################################################
.. # Copyright (c) 2017, Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
.. #
.. # Produced at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
.. #
.. # LLNL-CODE-725085
.. #
.. # All rights reserved.
.. #
.. # This file is part of BLT.
.. #
.. # For additional details, please also read BLT/LICENSE.
.. #
.. # Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.. # modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.. #
.. # * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.. #   this list of conditions and the disclaimer below.
.. #
.. # * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.. #   this list of conditions and the disclaimer (as noted below) in the
.. #   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.. #
.. # * Neither the name of the LLNS/LLNL nor the names of its contributors may
.. #   be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.. #   specific prior written permission.
.. #
.. # THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.. # AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.. # IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.. # ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL LAWRENCE LIVERMORE NATIONAL SECURITY,
.. # LLC, THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.. # DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.. # DAMAGES  (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.. # OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.. # HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.. # STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
.. # IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.. # POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.. #
.. ###############################################################################

.. _AddTarget:

Creating Libraries and Executables
==================================

Now that we have the basics down of how to create a CMake project with BLT, configure
the project, and building and testing the built-in third party libraries provided
by BLT.  We can now move onto more useful tasks, creating libraries and executables
with two of BLT's core macros, ``blt_add_library`` and ``blt_add_executable``.

We will start with a basic executable that calculates pi.  Then extract that code into
a library which we then link into a new executable.


Example 1: Basic executable
---------------------------

This example is as basic as it gets. After setting up a BLT CMake project, like the blank
project in the previous section, BLT macros are already enabled and ready to use.  So creating
an executable is as simple as calling the following macro:

..literalinclude:: tutorial/calc_pi/CMakeLists.txt
   :language: cmake
   :lines: 24-25
   :linenos:

This tells CMake that there is an executable named ``example_1`` with one source file.

You can create this project yourself or you can run the already provided ``tutorial/calc_pi`` project.
For ease of use, we have combined many examples into this one CMake project.  After running
the following commands, you will create the executable ``<build dir>/bin/example_1``:

..code:: bash

    cd <blt repository/docs/tutorial/calc_pi
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake -DBLT_SOURCE_DIR=`pwd`/../../.. ..
    make


blt_add_executable
------------------

This macro is one of the core macros that enables BLT to simplify many tasks that
every CMake developer does to get a basic project working.  It unifies many CMake
calls into one easy to use macro.  It creates a CMake executable target with the 
given sources, sets the output directory to ``bin`` unless overwritten with the
parameter ``OUTPUT_DIR``, and handles internal and external dependencies in a greatly
simplified manner.  There will be more on that in the following section.


Example 2: One library, one executable
--------------------------------------

This example is a bit more exciting.  This time we are creating a library that calculates
pi then linking that library into our executable.

First we create the library with the following BLT code:

..literalinclude:: tutorial/calc_pi/CMakeLists.txt
   :language: cmake
   :lines: 32-34
   :linenos:

Just like before, this creates a CMake library target that will get built to ``<build dir>/lib/libcalc_pi.a``.

Then we will create an executable named ``example_2`` and link in the previously created library target:

..literalinclude:: tutorial/calc_pi/CMakeLists.txt
   :language: cmake
   :lines: 37-39
   :linenos:

The ``DEPENDS_ON`` parameter properly links the previously made library into this executable without any
more work or CMake function calls.


blt_add_library
---------------

This is another core macro of BLT.  It creates a CMake library target and associates the
given sources and headers along with handling dependencies the same way as ``blt_add_executable``
does.  It also provides a few commonly used build options, such as overriding the output name of the
library and the output directory.  It defaults to building a static library unless you override it with
``SHARED`` or with the global option ``ENABLE_SHARED_LIBS``.
