docs/setup_blt.rst, before:

.. ###############################################################################
.. # Copyright (c) 2017, Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
.. #
.. # Produced at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
.. #
.. # LLNL-CODE-725085
.. #
.. # All rights reserved.
.. #
.. # This file is part of BLT.
.. #
.. # For additional details, please also read BLT/LICENSE.
.. #
.. # Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.. # modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.. #
.. # * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.. #   this list of conditions and the disclaimer below.
.. #
.. # * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.. #   this list of conditions and the disclaimer (as noted below) in the
.. #   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.. #
.. # * Neither the name of the LLNS/LLNL nor the names of its contributors may
.. #   be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.. #   specific prior written permission.
.. #
.. # THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.. # AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.. # IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.. # ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL LAWRENCE LIVERMORE NATIONAL SECURITY,
.. # LLC, THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.. # DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.. # DAMAGES  (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.. # OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.. # HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.. # STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
.. # IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.. # POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.. #
.. ###############################################################################

Setup BLT in your CMake Project
=================================

BLT is easy to include in your CMake project whether it is an existing project or
you are starting from scratch. You simply pull it into your project using a CMake ``include()`` command.

.. code:: cmake

    include(<path/to/blt>/SetupBLT.cmake)

You can include the BLT source in your repository or pass the location 
of BLT at CMake configure time through the optional ``BLT_SOURCE_DIR`` CMake variable. 

There are two standard choices for including the BLT source in your repository:

1. Add BLT as a git submodule
2. Copy BLT into a subdirectory in your repository


Add BLT as a git submodule
--------------------------

This example adds BLT as a submodule. It then commits and pushes the changes to your repository.

.. code:: bash

    cd <your repository>
    git submodule add git@github.com:LLNL/blt.git blt
    git commit -m "Adding BLT"
    git push

At this point, enabling BLT in your CMake project is trivial.  Just include the
following code in your base ``CMakeLists.txt`` after your ``project()`` call.

The following gives a meaningful error if CMake can't find BLT and then brings in BLT.

.. code:: cmake

    if (NOT EXISTS ${PROJECT_SOURCE_DIR}/blt/SetupBLT.cmake)
        message(FATAL_ERROR 
            "The BLT submodule is not present. "
            "Run the following two commands in your git repository: \n"
            "    git submodule init \n "
            "    git submodule update" )
    endif()

    include(blt/SetupBLT.cmake)


Copy BLT into your repository
-----------------------------

This example will clone BLT into your repository and remove the unneeded 
git files from the clone. It then commits and pushes the changes to your
repository.

.. code:: bash

    cd <your repository>
    git clone git@github.com:LLNL/blt.git
    rm -rf blt/.git
    git commit -m "Adding BLT"
    git push


Include BLT in your project
---------------------------

In most projects, including BLT is as simple as including the following CMake
line in your base ``CMakeLists.txt`` after your ``project()`` call.

.. code:: cmake

    include(blt/SetupBLT.cmake)

This enables all of BLT's features in your project. 


Include BLT via BLT_SOURCE_DIR
--------------------------------

Some projects want BLT to live outside of their project.  This is usually to share
one instance of BLT between many dependent projects.

You can also include BLT from a directory outside of your source tree using ``BLT_SOURCE_DIR``.

To support this in your ``CMakeLists.txt`` file, add:

.. literalinclude:: tutorial/blank_project/CMakeLists.txt
   :language: cmake
   :lines: 19

.. note::
  Throughout this tutorial, we pass the path to BLT using ``BLT_SOURCE_DIR`` since 
  our tutorial is part of the blt repository and we want this project to be 
  automatically tested by just a single check-out of our repository.


Running CMake
-------------

To configure a project with CMake, first create a build directory and cd into it.  
Then run cmake with the path to your project.  

.. code:: bash

    cd <your project>
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake ..

If you are using BLT outside of your project pass the location of BLT as follows:

.. code:: bash

    cd <your project>
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake -DBLT_SOURCE_DIR="path/to/blt" ..

Blank Project Example
---------------------

The ``blank_project`` example is provided to show you some of the built-in features provided by BLT.
It demonstrates the bare minimum required for testing purposes.

BLT also enforces some best practices for building, such as not allowing in-source builds.  
This means that BLT prevents you from generating a project configuration directly in your project. 
For example if you run the following commands:

.. code:: bash

    cd <BLT repository>/docs/tutorial/blank_project
    cmake -DBLT_SOURCE_DIR=../..

you will get the following error:

.. code:: bash

    CMake Error at blt/SetupBLT.cmake:59 (message):
      In-source builds are not supported.  Please remove CMakeCache.txt from the
      'src' dir and configure an out-of-source build in another directory.
    Call Stack (most recent call first):
      CMakeLists.txt:55 (include)


    -- Configuring incomplete, errors occurred!

To correctly run cmake, create a build directory and run cmake from there:

.. code:: bash

    cd <BLT repository>/docs/blank_project
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake -DBLT_SOURCE_DIR=../../.. ..

This will generate a configured ``Makefile`` in your build directory to build ``blank_project``.  
The generated makefile includes gtest and several built-in BLT *smoke* tests,
depending on the features that you have enabled in your build.  

To build the project, use the following command:

.. code:: bash

    make

As with any other ``make``-based project, you can utilize parallel job tasks 
to speed up the build with the following command:

.. code:: bash

    make -j8

Next run all tests in this project with the following command:

.. code:: bash

    make test

If everything went correctly, you should have the following output:

.. code:: bash

    Running tests...
    Test project blt/docs/tutorial/blank_project/build
        Start 1: blt_gtest_smoke
    1/1 Test #1: blt_gtest_smoke ..................   Passed    0.01 sec

    100% tests passed, 0 tests failed out of 1

    Total Test time (real) =   0.10 sec

Note that the default options for ``blank_project`` only include a single test ``blt_gtest_smoke``.
As we will see later on, BLT includes additional tests when configured with other options, 
like Fortran, MPI, OpenMP and Cuda. 

Host-configs
------------

To capture (and revision control) build options, third party library paths, etc.,
we recommend using CMake's initial-cache file mechanism. 
This feature allows you to pass a file to CMake that provides variables to bootstrap the configuration process. 

You can pass initial-cache files to cmake via the ``-C`` command line option.

.. code:: bash

    cmake -C config_file.cmake


We call these initial-cache files ``host-config`` files since we typically create a file for each platform
or specific hosts, if necessary. 


These files use standard CMake commands. CMake ``set()`` commands need to specify ``CACHE`` as follows:

.. code:: cmake

    set(CMAKE_VARIABLE_NAME {VALUE} CACHE PATH "")

Here is a snippet from a host-config file that specifies compiler details for using gcc 4.9.3 on LLNL's surface cluster. 

.. literalinclude:: tutorial/host-configs/llnl-surface-chaos_5_x86_64_ib-gcc@4.9.3.cmake
   :language: cmake
   :lines: 9-23

Commit message:

Added rst admonitions for the blt macros in the tutorial.
Also revised several sections of the tutorial writeup.

docs/setup_blt.rst, after:

.. ###############################################################################
.. # Copyright (c) 2017, Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
.. #
.. # Produced at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
.. #
.. # LLNL-CODE-725085
.. #
.. # All rights reserved.
.. #
.. # This file is part of BLT.
.. #
.. # For additional details, please also read BLT/LICENSE.
.. #
.. # Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.. # modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.. #
.. # * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.. #   this list of conditions and the disclaimer below.
.. #
.. # * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.. #   this list of conditions and the disclaimer (as noted below) in the
.. #   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.. #
.. # * Neither the name of the LLNS/LLNL nor the names of its contributors may
.. #   be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.. #   specific prior written permission.
.. #
.. # THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.. # AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.. # IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.. # ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL LAWRENCE LIVERMORE NATIONAL SECURITY,
.. # LLC, THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.. # DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.. # DAMAGES  (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.. # OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.. # HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.. # STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
.. # IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.. # POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.. #
.. ###############################################################################

Setup BLT in your CMake Project
=================================

BLT is easy to include in your CMake project whether it is an existing project or
you are starting from scratch. You simply pull it into your project using a CMake ``include()`` command.

.. code:: cmake

    include(<path/to/blt>/SetupBLT.cmake)

You can include the BLT source in your repository or pass the location 
of BLT at CMake configure time through the optional ``BLT_SOURCE_DIR`` CMake variable. 

There are two standard choices for including the BLT source in your repository:

1. Add BLT as a git submodule
2. Copy BLT into a subdirectory in your repository


Add BLT as a git submodule
--------------------------

This example adds BLT as a submodule. It then commits and pushes the changes to your repository.

.. code:: bash

    cd <your repository>
    git submodule add https://github.com/LLNL/blt.git blt
    git commit -m "Adding BLT"
    git push

At this point, enabling BLT in your CMake project is trivial.  Just include the
following code in your base ``CMakeLists.txt`` after your ``project()`` call.

The following gives a meaningful error if CMake can't find BLT and then brings in BLT.

.. code:: cmake

    if (NOT EXISTS ${PROJECT_SOURCE_DIR}/blt/SetupBLT.cmake)
        message(FATAL_ERROR 
            "The BLT submodule is not present. "
            "Run the following two commands in your git repository: \n"
            "    git submodule init \n "
            "    git submodule update" )
    endif()

    include(blt/SetupBLT.cmake)


Copy BLT into your repository
-----------------------------

This example will clone BLT into your repository and remove the unneeded 
git files from the clone. It then commits and pushes the changes to your
repository.

.. code:: bash

    cd <your repository>
    git clone https://github.com/LLNL/blt.git
    rm -rf blt/.git
    git commit -m "Adding BLT"
    git push


Include BLT in your project
---------------------------

In most projects, including BLT is as simple as including the following CMake
line in your base ``CMakeLists.txt`` after your ``project()`` call.

.. code:: cmake

    include(blt/SetupBLT.cmake)

This enables all of BLT's features in your project. 


Include BLT via BLT_SOURCE_DIR
--------------------------------

Some projects want BLT to live outside of their project.  This is usually to share
one instance of BLT between many dependent projects.

You can also include BLT from a directory outside of your source tree using ``BLT_SOURCE_DIR``.

To support this in your ``CMakeLists.txt`` file, add:

.. literalinclude:: tutorial/blank_project/CMakeLists.txt
   :language: cmake
   :lines: 19

.. note::
  Throughout this tutorial, we pass the path to BLT using ``BLT_SOURCE_DIR`` since 
  our tutorial is part of the blt repository and we want this project to be 
  automatically tested by just a single check-out of our repository.


Running CMake
-------------

To configure a project with CMake, first create a build directory and cd into it.  
Then run cmake with the path to your project.  

.. code:: bash

    cd <your project>
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake ..

If you are using BLT outside of your project pass the location of BLT as follows:

.. code:: bash

    cd <your project>
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake -DBLT_SOURCE_DIR="path/to/blt" ..

Example: blank_project
----------------------

The ``blank_project`` example is provided to show you some of BLT's built-in features.
It demonstrates the bare minimum required for testing purposes.

Here is the entire CMakeLists.txt file for ``blank_project``:

.. literalinclude:: tutorial/blank_project/CMakeLists.txt
   :language: cmake


BLT also enforces some best practices for building, such as not allowing in-source builds.  
This means that BLT prevents you from generating a project configuration directly in your project. 
For example if you run the following commands:

.. code:: bash

    cd <BLT repository>/docs/tutorial/blank_project
    cmake -DBLT_SOURCE_DIR=../..

you will get the following error:

.. code:: bash

    CMake Error at blt/SetupBLT.cmake:59 (message):
      In-source builds are not supported.  Please remove CMakeCache.txt from the
      'src' dir and configure an out-of-source build in another directory.
    Call Stack (most recent call first):
      CMakeLists.txt:55 (include)


    -- Configuring incomplete, errors occurred!

To correctly run cmake, create a build directory and run cmake from there:

.. code:: bash

    cd <BLT repository>/docs/blank_project
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake -DBLT_SOURCE_DIR=../../.. ..

This will generate a configured ``Makefile`` in your build directory to build ``blank_project``.  
The generated makefile includes gtest and several built-in BLT *smoke* tests,
depending on the features that you have enabled in your build.  

To build the project, use the following command:

.. code:: bash

    make

As with any other ``make``-based project, you can utilize parallel job tasks 
to speed up the build with the following command:

.. code:: bash

    make -j8

Next, run all tests in this project with the following command:

.. code:: bash

    make test

If everything went correctly, you should have the following output:

.. code:: bash

    Running tests...
    Test project blt/docs/tutorial/blank_project/build
        Start 1: blt_gtest_smoke
    1/1 Test #1: blt_gtest_smoke ..................   Passed    0.01 sec

    100% tests passed, 0 tests failed out of 1

    Total Test time (real) =   0.10 sec

Note that the default options for ``blank_project`` only include a single test ``blt_gtest_smoke``.
As we will see later on, BLT includes additional smoke tests that are activated when BLT is configured 
with other options enabled, like Fortran, MPI, OpenMP and Cuda. 

Host-configs
------------

To capture (and revision control) build options, third party library paths, etc.,
we recommend using CMake's initial-cache file mechanism. 
This feature allows you to pass a file to CMake that provides variables to bootstrap the configuration process. 

You can pass initial-cache files to cmake via the ``-C`` command line option.

.. code:: bash

    cmake -C config_file.cmake


We call these initial-cache files ``host-config`` files since we typically create a file for each platform
or specific hosts, if necessary. 


These files use standard CMake commands. CMake ``set()`` commands need to specify ``CACHE`` as follows:

.. code:: cmake

    set(CMAKE_VARIABLE_NAME {VALUE} CACHE PATH "")

Here is a snippet from a host-config file that specifies compiler details for using gcc 4.9.3 on LLNL's surface cluster. 

.. literalinclude:: tutorial/host-configs/llnl-surface-chaos_5_x86_64_ib-gcc@4.9.3.cmake
   :language: cmake
   :lines: 9-23
