docs/tutorial/common_hpc_dependencies.rst, before:

.. # Copyright (c) 2017-2021, Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC and
.. # other BLT Project Developers. See the top-level LICENSE file for details
.. # 
.. # SPDX-License-Identifier: (BSD-3-Clause)

.. _CommonHPCDependencies:

Common HPC Dependencies
=======================

BLT creates named targets for the common HPC dependencies that most HPC projects need, such as
MPI, CUDA, HIP, and OpenMP.  Something BLT assists it's users with is getting these dependencies
to interoperate within the same library or executable.

As previously mentioned in :ref:`AddingTests`, BLT also provides 
bundled versions of GoogleTest, GoogleMock, GoogleBenchmark, and FRUIT.  Not only are the source
for these included, we provide named CMake targets for them as well.

BLT's ``mpi``, ``cuda``, ``cuda_runtime``, ``hip``, ``hip_runtime``,and ``openmp`` targets are
all defined via the :ref:`blt_import_library` macro. This creates a true CMake imported target that is inherited
properly through the CMake's dependency graph.

.. note::
    BLT also supports exporting its third-party targets via the ``BLT_EXPORT_THIRDPARTY`` option.
    See :ref:`ExportingTargets` for more information.

You have already seen one use of ``DEPENDS_ON`` for a BLT dependency, ``gtest``, in ``test_1``:

.. literalinclude:: calc_pi/CMakeLists.txt 
   :start-after: _blt_tutorial_calcpi_test1_executable_start
   :end-before:  _blt_tutorial_calcpi_test1_executable_end
   :language: cmake

MPI
~~~

Our next example, ``test_2``, builds and tests the ``calc_pi_mpi`` library,
which uses MPI to parallelize the calculation over the integration intervals.

To enable MPI, we set ``ENABLE_MPI``, ``MPI_C_COMPILER``, and ``MPI_CXX_COMPILER``
in our host config file. Here is a snippet with these settings for LLNL's Pascal Cluster:

.. literalinclude:: ../../host-configs/llnl/toss_3_x86_64_ib/gcc@4.9.3_nvcc.cmake
   :start-after: _blt_tutorial_mpi_config_start
   :end-before:  _blt_tutorial_mpi_config_end
   :language: cmake


Here, you can see how ``calc_pi_mpi`` and ``test_2`` use ``DEPENDS_ON``:

.. literalinclude:: calc_pi/CMakeLists.txt 
   :start-after: _blt_tutorial_calcpi_test2_executable_start
   :end-before:  _blt_tutorial_calcpi_test2_executable_end
   :language: cmake


For MPI unit tests, you also need to specify the number of MPI Tasks
to launch. We use the ``NUM_MPI_TASKS`` argument to :ref:`blt_add_test` macro.

.. literalinclude:: calc_pi/CMakeLists.txt 
   :start-after: _blt_tutorial_calcpi_test2_test_start
   :end-before:  _blt_tutorial_calcpi_test2_test_end
   :language: cmake


As mentioned in :ref:`AddingTests`, GoogleTest provides a default ``main()``
driver that will execute all unit tests defined in the source. To test MPI code,
we need to create a main that initializes and finalizes MPI in addition to Google
Test. ``test_2.cpp`` provides an example driver for MPI with GoogleTest.

.. literalinclude:: calc_pi/test_2.cpp
   :start-after: _blt_tutorial_calcpi_test2_main_start
   :end-before:  _blt_tutorial_calcpi_test2_main_end
   :language: cpp

.. note::
  While we have tried to ensure that BLT chooses the correct setup information
  for MPI, there are several niche cases where the default behavior is
  insufficient. We have provided several available override variables:
  
  * ``BLT_MPI_COMPILE_FLAGS``
  * ``BLT_MPI_INCLUDES``
  * ``BLT_MPI_LIBRARIES``
  * ``BLT_MPI_LINK_FLAGS``
  
  BLT also has the variable ``ENABLE_FIND_MPI`` which turns off all CMake's ``FindMPI``
  logic and then uses the MPI wrapper directly when you provide them as the default
  compilers.


CUDA
~~~~

Finally, ``test_3`` builds and tests the ``calc_pi_cuda`` library,
which uses CUDA to parallelize the calculation over the integration intervals.

To enable CUDA, we set ``ENABLE_CUDA``, ``CMAKE_CUDA_COMPILER``, and
``CUDA_TOOLKIT_ROOT_DIR`` in our host config file.  Also before enabling the
CUDA language in CMake, you need to set ``CMAKE_CUDA_HOST_COMPILER`` in CMake 3.9+
or ``CUDA_HOST_COMPILER`` in previous versions.  If you do not call 
``enable_language(CUDA)``, BLT will set the appropriate host compiler variable
for you and enable the CUDA language.

Here is a snippet with these settings for LLNL's Pascal Cluster:

.. literalinclude:: ../../host-configs/llnl/toss_3_x86_64_ib/gcc@4.9.3_nvcc.cmake
   :start-after: _blt_tutorial_cuda_config_start
   :end-before:  _blt_tutorial_cuda_config_end
   :language: cmake

Here, you can see how ``calc_pi_cuda`` and ``test_3`` use ``DEPENDS_ON``:

.. literalinclude:: calc_pi/CMakeLists.txt 
   :start-after: _blt_tutorial_calcpi_cuda_start
   :end-before:  _blt_tutorial_calcpi_cuda_end
   :language: cmake

The ``cuda`` dependency for ``calc_pi_cuda``  is a little special, 
along with adding the normal CUDA library and headers to your library or executable,
it also tells BLT that this target's C/C++/CUDA source files need to be compiled via
``nvcc`` or ``cuda-clang``. If this is not a requirement, you can use the dependency
``cuda_runtime`` which also adds the CUDA runtime library and headers but will not
compile each source file with ``nvcc``.

Some other useful CUDA flags are:

.. literalinclude:: ../../host-configs/llnl/blueos_3_ppc64le_ib_p9/clang@upstream_nvcc_xlf.cmake
   :start-after: _blt_tutorial_useful_cuda_flags_start
   :end-before:  _blt_tutorial_useful_cuda_flags_end
   :language: cmake


OpenMP
~~~~~~

To enable OpenMP, set ``ENABLE_OPENMP`` in your host-config file or before loading
``SetupBLT.cmake``.  Once OpenMP is enabled, simply add ``openmp`` to your library
executable's ``DEPENDS_ON`` list.

Here is an example of how to add an OpenMP enabled executable:

.. literalinclude:: ../../tests/smoke/CMakeLists.txt
   :start-after: _blt_tutorial_openmp_executable_start
   :end-before:  _blt_tutorial_openmp_executable_end
   :language: cmake

.. note::
  While we have tried to ensure that BLT chooses the correct compile and link flags for
  OpenMP, there are several niche cases where the default options are insufficient.
  For example, linking with NVCC requires to link in the OpenMP libraries directly instead
  of relying on the compile and link flags returned by CMake's FindOpenMP package.  An
  example of this is in ``host-configs/llnl/blueos_3_ppc64le_ib_p9/clang@upstream_link_with_nvcc.cmake``. 
  We provide two variables to override BLT's OpenMP flag logic: 
  
  * ``BLT_OPENMP_COMPILE_FLAGS``
  * ``BLT_OPENMP_LINK_FLAGS``

Here is an example of how to add an OpenMP enabled test that sets the amount of threads used:

.. literalinclude:: ../../tests/smoke/CMakeLists.txt
   :start-after: _blt_tutorial_openmp_test_start
   :end-before:  _blt_tutorial_openmp_test_end
   :language: cmake


HIP
~~~

**HIP tutorial coming soon!**

BLT also supports AMD's HIP via a mechanism very similar to our CUDA support.  

**Important Setup Variables**

* ``ENABLE_HIP`` : Enables HIP support in BLT
* ``HIP_ROOT_DIR`` : Root directory for HIP installation

**BLT Targets**

* ``hip`` : Adds include directories, hip runtime libraries, and compiles source with hipcc
* ``hip_runtime`` : Adds include directories and hip runtime libraries

Commit message:

add option to use mpi imported targets (#482)
* add option to use mpi imported targets

* change option name and add error checking

* blurb

* pr feedback

* space

* now with more backticks

* more backticks for the backticks auditors

docs/tutorial/common_hpc_dependencies.rst, after:

.. # Copyright (c) 2017-2021, Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC and
.. # other BLT Project Developers. See the top-level LICENSE file for details
.. # 
.. # SPDX-License-Identifier: (BSD-3-Clause)

.. _CommonHPCDependencies:

Common HPC Dependencies
=======================

BLT creates named targets for the common HPC dependencies that most HPC projects need, such as
MPI, CUDA, HIP, and OpenMP.  Something BLT assists it's users with is getting these dependencies
to interoperate within the same library or executable.

As previously mentioned in :ref:`AddingTests`, BLT also provides 
bundled versions of GoogleTest, GoogleMock, GoogleBenchmark, and FRUIT.  Not only are the source
for these included, we provide named CMake targets for them as well.

BLT's ``mpi``, ``cuda``, ``cuda_runtime``, ``hip``, ``hip_runtime``,and ``openmp`` targets are
all defined via the :ref:`blt_import_library` macro. This creates a true CMake imported target that is inherited
properly through the CMake's dependency graph.

.. note::
    BLT also supports exporting its third-party targets via the ``BLT_EXPORT_THIRDPARTY`` option.
    See :ref:`ExportingTargets` for more information.

You have already seen one use of ``DEPENDS_ON`` for a BLT dependency, ``gtest``, in ``test_1``:

.. literalinclude:: calc_pi/CMakeLists.txt 
   :start-after: _blt_tutorial_calcpi_test1_executable_start
   :end-before:  _blt_tutorial_calcpi_test1_executable_end
   :language: cmake

MPI
~~~

Our next example, ``test_2``, builds and tests the ``calc_pi_mpi`` library,
which uses MPI to parallelize the calculation over the integration intervals.

To enable MPI, we set ``ENABLE_MPI``, ``MPI_C_COMPILER``, and ``MPI_CXX_COMPILER``
in our host config file. Here is a snippet with these settings for LLNL's Pascal Cluster:

.. literalinclude:: ../../host-configs/llnl/toss_3_x86_64_ib/gcc@4.9.3_nvcc.cmake
   :start-after: _blt_tutorial_mpi_config_start
   :end-before:  _blt_tutorial_mpi_config_end
   :language: cmake


Here, you can see how ``calc_pi_mpi`` and ``test_2`` use ``DEPENDS_ON``:

.. literalinclude:: calc_pi/CMakeLists.txt 
   :start-after: _blt_tutorial_calcpi_test2_executable_start
   :end-before:  _blt_tutorial_calcpi_test2_executable_end
   :language: cmake


For MPI unit tests, you also need to specify the number of MPI Tasks
to launch. We use the ``NUM_MPI_TASKS`` argument to :ref:`blt_add_test` macro.

.. literalinclude:: calc_pi/CMakeLists.txt 
   :start-after: _blt_tutorial_calcpi_test2_test_start
   :end-before:  _blt_tutorial_calcpi_test2_test_end
   :language: cmake


As mentioned in :ref:`AddingTests`, GoogleTest provides a default ``main()``
driver that will execute all unit tests defined in the source. To test MPI code,
we need to create a main that initializes and finalizes MPI in addition to Google
Test. ``test_2.cpp`` provides an example driver for MPI with GoogleTest.

.. literalinclude:: calc_pi/test_2.cpp
   :start-after: _blt_tutorial_calcpi_test2_main_start
   :end-before:  _blt_tutorial_calcpi_test2_main_end
   :language: cpp

.. note::
  While we have tried to ensure that BLT chooses the correct setup information
  for MPI, there are several niche cases where the default behavior is
  insufficient. We have provided several available override variables:
  
  * ``BLT_MPI_COMPILE_FLAGS``
  * ``BLT_MPI_INCLUDES``
  * ``BLT_MPI_LIBRARIES``
  * ``BLT_MPI_LINK_FLAGS``
  
  BLT also has the variable ``ENABLE_FIND_MPI`` which turns off all CMake's ``FindMPI``
  logic and then uses the MPI wrapper directly when you provide them as the default
  compilers.
  
  BLT also provides ``BLT_USE_FIND_MPI_TARGETS`` that will directly use the
  ``MPI::MPI_C`` and ``MPI::MPI_CXX`` targets provided by CMake's ``FindMPI``.
  When enabled these targets are available for BLT ``DEPENDS_ON`` arguments
  via unified name of ``mpi``.
  This option requires ``ENABLE_FIND_MPI == true`` and is not compatible with
  the ``BLT_`` override options above.


CUDA
~~~~

Finally, ``test_3`` builds and tests the ``calc_pi_cuda`` library,
which uses CUDA to parallelize the calculation over the integration intervals.

To enable CUDA, we set ``ENABLE_CUDA``, ``CMAKE_CUDA_COMPILER``, and
``CUDA_TOOLKIT_ROOT_DIR`` in our host config file.  Also before enabling the
CUDA language in CMake, you need to set ``CMAKE_CUDA_HOST_COMPILER`` in CMake 3.9+
or ``CUDA_HOST_COMPILER`` in previous versions.  If you do not call 
``enable_language(CUDA)``, BLT will set the appropriate host compiler variable
for you and enable the CUDA language.

Here is a snippet with these settings for LLNL's Pascal Cluster:

.. literalinclude:: ../../host-configs/llnl/toss_3_x86_64_ib/gcc@4.9.3_nvcc.cmake
   :start-after: _blt_tutorial_cuda_config_start
   :end-before:  _blt_tutorial_cuda_config_end
   :language: cmake

Here, you can see how ``calc_pi_cuda`` and ``test_3`` use ``DEPENDS_ON``:

.. literalinclude:: calc_pi/CMakeLists.txt 
   :start-after: _blt_tutorial_calcpi_cuda_start
   :end-before:  _blt_tutorial_calcpi_cuda_end
   :language: cmake

The ``cuda`` dependency for ``calc_pi_cuda``  is a little special, 
along with adding the normal CUDA library and headers to your library or executable,
it also tells BLT that this target's C/C++/CUDA source files need to be compiled via
``nvcc`` or ``cuda-clang``. If this is not a requirement, you can use the dependency
``cuda_runtime`` which also adds the CUDA runtime library and headers but will not
compile each source file with ``nvcc``.

Some other useful CUDA flags are:

.. literalinclude:: ../../host-configs/llnl/blueos_3_ppc64le_ib_p9/clang@upstream_nvcc_xlf.cmake
   :start-after: _blt_tutorial_useful_cuda_flags_start
   :end-before:  _blt_tutorial_useful_cuda_flags_end
   :language: cmake


OpenMP
~~~~~~

To enable OpenMP, set ``ENABLE_OPENMP`` in your host-config file or before loading
``SetupBLT.cmake``.  Once OpenMP is enabled, simply add ``openmp`` to your library
executable's ``DEPENDS_ON`` list.

Here is an example of how to add an OpenMP enabled executable:

.. literalinclude:: ../../tests/smoke/CMakeLists.txt
   :start-after: _blt_tutorial_openmp_executable_start
   :end-before:  _blt_tutorial_openmp_executable_end
   :language: cmake

.. note::
  While we have tried to ensure that BLT chooses the correct compile and link flags for
  OpenMP, there are several niche cases where the default options are insufficient.
  For example, linking with NVCC requires to link in the OpenMP libraries directly instead
  of relying on the compile and link flags returned by CMake's FindOpenMP package.  An
  example of this is in ``host-configs/llnl/blueos_3_ppc64le_ib_p9/clang@upstream_link_with_nvcc.cmake``. 
  We provide two variables to override BLT's OpenMP flag logic: 
  
  * ``BLT_OPENMP_COMPILE_FLAGS``
  * ``BLT_OPENMP_LINK_FLAGS``

Here is an example of how to add an OpenMP enabled test that sets the amount of threads used:

.. literalinclude:: ../../tests/smoke/CMakeLists.txt
   :start-after: _blt_tutorial_openmp_test_start
   :end-before:  _blt_tutorial_openmp_test_end
   :language: cmake


HIP
~~~

**HIP tutorial coming soon!**

BLT also supports AMD's HIP via a mechanism very similar to our CUDA support.  

**Important Setup Variables**

* ``ENABLE_HIP`` : Enables HIP support in BLT
* ``HIP_ROOT_DIR`` : Root directory for HIP installation

**BLT Targets**

* ``hip`` : Adds include directories, hip runtime libraries, and compiles source with hipcc
* ``hip_runtime`` : Adds include directories and hip runtime libraries
